# Diversity

Diversity is one of the key assets of any startup. It enables a team to understand a problem from various perspectives, and initiates crucial conversations on inclusion and biases that can improve working conditions and the product they create. At Ezra, we value diversity and strive to learn more in the areas we lack expertise. This ensures we hear and acknowledge the concerns and suggestions of all our team members and customers. Below, we will be discussing our backgrounds, team diversity, and the impacts we foresee this having on our team dynamic and product.

## Expertise

Our team is comprised of individuals with varying expertise. Our CSC491 team members specialize in frontend development with React, React Native, Redux, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS, and backend development with Java, Python, Ruby on Rails, NodeJS, ExpressJS, and C. The team has database and data management experience with Python, Firebase, and multiple SQL, and NoSQL databases. Our variety of experiences give us confidence that we will be able to tackle our solution and learn about relevant technologies when required. 

Our Singaporean Exchange Student, Jaryl, has experience with Data Science tools and Computer Vision (particularly object detection and image cleaning). This will prove to be useful when exploring technologies and methodologies for Computer Vision, and learning how to appropriately use data and models. Team members Lilit, Shantanu, Abhigya, and Anjali have experience with UX/UI research and design. Their skillset will enable us to discuss and explore important UX/UI considerations, conduct interviews to polish our product, and create a visually-appealing product. Anjali, having led teams in the past, has the skills to lead our startup and encourage constant and productive communication. Shantanu and Aashna have Consulting experience, giving them the ability to conduct research, analyze source credibility, and present information and recommendations in a well-formatted way. Aashna has some experience with Data Analytics and Machine Learning, with a specific focus on predictive models in Economics and Natural Language Processing. Abhigya has experience working with startups and has the ability to share his learnings so as to prevent us from making the same mistakes as others. 

However, our team lacks expertise in certain aspects, the most important being Computer Vision. Only one out of six members has some experience with Computer Vision, leaving us at a severe disadvantage understanding and working with this year’s theme. This area entails a lot of learning for the team to properly understand the requirements of a Computer Vision related product and the limitations of pre-existing technologies. We also lack the skills to evaluate data and properly use data models, having a minority of members with data analysis and AI/ML expertise. Lastly, the team lacks experience in using tools such as Docker, Kubernetes, AWS, and creating a CI/CD pipeline. These skills will be important to learn to properly create, test, and deploy our product. 

## Subject Matter Experts

While we are a well-rounded team with various strengths, there are a few areas where we will need the consultation of experts.

No member of the team has substantial experience with Computer Vision so we will need the help of experts in the field of Computer Vision. These could be professionals or academics working in the field. Additionally, we would also need to consult experts for analysing and processing videos or images.

Moreover, while the team does have experience with data handling and processing, none of us has done it on a large scale with thousands or even millions of data points. Hence, we will consult experts in the field of data handling and processing.

Our team also lacks deep knowledge of CI/CD pipelines and relevant tools such as Dockers, Kubernetes etc. More specifically, our team has some experience usinng CI/CD pipelines but not in setting them up. Consulting experts familiar with such technologies would be of great asset to the team.

Lastly, our team also has limited experience with cloud technologies such as AWS. We would need to use cloud for storing data and potentially hosting the solution. Therefore, we will also be using the help of professionals and academics well-versed in the field of cloud computing.


## Diversity

The majority of our team has roots in Asia. Some of us grew up there, while others were raised here in Canada, around the GTA. Four of our six team members have South Asian roots, one of us is from Singapore, and another is Armenian. While there is some range in our backgrounds, we might have some blind spots when it comes to someone from the Black community, South American, or even East Asian community. We may be unaware of differences in cultural values and practices, which would impact product decisions. For example, one norm in south asian communities is you can wear white to weddings, so if we create a clothing app for every occasion and someone asks us to find them a wedding outfit and our model recommends options that are white. This would not work for a Christian wedding. Additionally, all of us speak, learn, and communicate primarily in English. Any writing in our product will be in English, but we lack the perspective of someone who is new to the language. This could make communicating with them more challenging. We will need to be aware of any phrases that could be difficult to understand, including idioms or sayings that they may not be familiar with.

We also lack diversity in age. We are all 21 to 22 years old, so we lack the older and younger generations. People from a much older generation (50+ years old) perceive technology very differently than we do. They might be wary of it, they may not find it as useful, and extremely complicated applications might be more of a hassle than a convenience. Additionally, the younger generation has grown up with technology more advanced than us. Something that appears to be a problem might not be the same for them as they have a much better understanding of how to use the technology at their disposal. Additionally, the younger generation uses Snapchat or TikTok as their primary forms of social media whereas older generations use Facebook or Instagram. So we definitely need to account for these different perspectives.

We are all generally in the same range of economic status – lower-middle to middle class – so we might not understand how lower income or extremely high incomes families live day to day. We may have difficulty understanding their problems and may incorrectly assume that they would buy or own certain products. One piece of evidence of this is that we all use Apple products (primarily iOS and macOS), which are more expensive than many Android or Windows products.

As students in highly-ranked Universities, we are fairly well-educated. Most of us are in a Computer Science program at the University of Toronto, so we lack the perspective of people with different educational backgrounds or those who did not pursue further education. An idea we had was of a notes app, but upon further reflection, we realized that while it seems extremely relevant to us, it would not be the case for the vast majority of the population.

Other areas we lack diversity in are biology, stocks, finance, and Varsity athletics. None of us have any particular expertise in any of these fields. For example, if we were to create something for health or fitness, we would lack perspective as none of us have lived the athlete experience nor do we have a great understanding of health and fitness. We also do not have medical experts in the team so any technology that aids the medical field would be lacking that unique perspective.

### Unconscious Bias

Certain biases can be introduced in the product we create due to the lack of experience we have as developers. The team has limited Linux, Windows, and Android experience, so we wouldn’t be able to understand the issues those users face, features and UI considerations they might find most useful. If we create a mobile application for Android devices, we will not have the perspective to identify accessibility and usability issues that could arise. A potential solution to eliminate this bias is to use emulators to test our product and engage in beta testing where our target group is diverse in terms of their preferred OS. Since we’re a group of Computer Science majors/specialists, we may have a bias in how we understand a problem and formulate a solution. We may unintentionally assume that our users have more technical knowledge than they actually do. The application logic and flow that makes sense to us may not resonate with non-tech users, creating a divide in what we create and what is actually useful. However, through demos, beta testing, and focus groups, we can mitigate this bias to a large extent. 

All team members belong to a similar age group (21-22 years old), so there will be an unconcious bias against features relevant to other age groups. We cannot gauge what people outside this age group will consider to be important, especially those older. We have discussed running surveys on and off campus to reach people from different age groups to gain perspective on whether our product interests them, and to address their concerns about our prototype. Our team lacks members with disabilities, introducing unconscious bias against accessibility concerns. Our product will pose the risk of not addressing the needs of such individuals. To mitigate this bias, we plan to interview individuals with disabilities to understand the issues they have faced in the past with Computer Vision technologies and identify areas of improvement for our product. We also intend to research and follow best design practices for people with disabilities to make our software more accessible.

Being a group of English speakers, there is a risk of language bias when looking into data and studies. However, given our diverse backgrounds, we believe we will be able to eliminate this by looking into information in our native languages. For example, the team was considering creating a fitness application to monitor and track an individual’s body composition and eating habits. However, different ethnicities consume different foods, and their bodies store and use energy differently too. There may be more information available in their native language rather than English, to target their population. Here, language bias occurs and can be mitigated by referring to studies in alternate languages. Lastly, confirmation bias may arise while we do our market research. We may unintentionally look for inflated figures and facts that support our idea and portray it to have more potential than it actually does. This can increase expectations and cause greater disappointment if the idea isn’t fruitful. We plan to search for sources with the most neutral outlook, that discuss both the costs and the benefits of our solution. We also want to look at figures as objectively as possible and consult the teaching team when unsure of our sources. 

At Ezra, we value differences. People with backgrounds that differ from our own can help us by sharing their perspective on missing features, and accessibility and usability issues that are not obvious to us. No matter how hard we try, we will not be able to fully understand and replicate the experiences of others; their concerns will not be apparent to us. As such, we plan to mitigate as much of the bias as possible using the ways mentioned above. 
